When I first started this class, I didn't know how to write a single line of code. I had heard of p5.js previously, but I was too intimidated to attempt to learn it. Unlike many others in my class, I've never coded before, and the idea of coding has always scared me. I still don't feel very comfortable with coding, but in retrospect, I have learned so much in such a short period of time. I now understand how function elements in p5.js work, how semantic plays a significant role in creating a code, and most importantly, how to debug using (console.log) and inspection features.

Unlike most programs I'd used previously (which were mostly adobe based programs), learning how to code felt less intuitive because the program wouldn't run until I figured an error out in my code and fixed it. This process was extremely frustrating to someone who has never coded before and struggles with attention issues. I often had to reread my code to figure out what went wrong, but sometimes I still couldn't identify the issue. Part of the problem was that I couldn't spot the error no matter how many times I looked, and part of it was that I simply didn't have enough knowledge to understand what the mistake was.

Due to my impatience, I often reached out to AI to debug. Unfortunately, AI wasn't super helpful because I still didn't understand what went wrong. I then understood why Sabine didn't want us to use AI because using AI doesn't give me enough explanations of how each code works or often provide more complex ideas that I was unaware of. Just like how my classmate JJ told me, coding has a steep learning curve. I still feel like I've only seen the tip of the iceberg and don't know how to code very well. However, I really appreciate the idea of having the power to create your own reality and ability to customize every single detail. I believe that I will eventually learn how to think the way computers think and code even better through this program.

I believe that I would have to work on a few issues before moving onto the next semester. First, I learned that you can't really push things until the last minutes. I procrastinated my Modjam assignment out of fear and stress, and I ended up forced to pull all-nighters and even more stressed. Which leads to my second point, working on perfectionism and allowing myself to make mistakes. As a person, I have always feared making mistakes. I wanted to achieve the best outcome possible with the limited amount of time I invested, which made me a lazy perfectionist. Unfortunately, that's not how things work most of the time. This class reminded me that it takes time to learn and understand materials, especially when they're new to me.


Honestly, I felt a bit stressed throughout the semester because I wanted to do good work. My peers seemed very knowledgeable or they appeared to know what they were doing. I ended up putting more pressure on myself to catch up to their level. Looking back, I should've stuck with the projects that were a bit easier to understand and work on. Now that I think about it, the desire to. "make things better" somewhat backfired me because I would end up having to learn complex ideas that were tougher to process. I love my ambition, but I need to learn how to make my ambition more realistic next time. Regardless, I'm still happy with my projects I have worked on throughout the semester.


Now that the semester is over, I want to learn more about vanilla javascript and review the functions we learned over this semester, and learn more of HTML and CSS as well. I found some of the concepts, such as array and for-loops, more challenging than others. I see the notion of frequent repetition in if-statement, array, and for-loops in a lot of codes that I've seen, whether if was demonstrated in class or the codes I found personally. I'm a little bit confused about the events functions as well. When Sabine helped me with my loading screen for the variation jam, I understood half of what was going on. It feels like you're stacking up event functions with arrays and for-loops, and that is something I'm still struggling to understand. I think going over the code that I created and making sure that I understand every part of it would be helpful and crucial before moving onto the next semester.

Before the semester started, I saw an Instagram video about a designer making a photobooth website using AI and a few others about vibecoding. I have always wanted to customize a website and create an app,so the idea sounded appealing to me. Since the end of the semester, I have more time and I have a better understanding of how code works. I believe that I can facilitate the process of customizing a website or creating an app. I see so much potential in incorporating coding with my artistic practice. I'm still uncertain about what I want to do career wise, but I want to play around with codes and make something fun. A few days ago, I saw a video of making a moving donut in a terminal using C++. I was quite fascinated with the idea. I would love to try out different tutorials and modify them. One of the things I'm thinking of currently is creating an ASCII photobooth from my variation jam project. I would love to add features to customize the colors of ASCII letters, size, frame, and so on. I believe that this would be a fun and perhaps challenging project. I am keeping track of my ideas of what I want to create in my notes app, and having the ability to understand and create code helps me stretch the area I can work with. I'm very grateful about what I learned through this class and excited to learn more of it in the future.

I'm not yet confident to play or claim a role as a creative coder. However, my understanding of code, as mentioned above, significantly improved over the course of the semester. I'm looking forward to owning the role as a creative coder and making some cool stuff, along with figuring out what I want to create and what areas I want to specialize in. Until then, I'm planning to just play around and try new things.
